Persian Gulf powers Saudi Arabia
and
Iran stared each other down
today in a
full-scale diplomatic
confrontation the
struggle pitted Sunnis against
shiite
persians against arabs and had
other
nations choosing sides aunty
Saudi
protest brought thousands of
Shiite the
iraqis into the streets of
Baghdad today
outside the heavily fortified
Green Zone
at home to the USA embassy but
the
saudis were undeterred as
Foreign
Minister Adel al-jubeir made
clear in an
interview with Reuters who
decided to
cut off all diplomatic relations
with
Iran we will also be cutting off
all air
traffic to and from here on we
will be
cutting off all commercial
relations
with Iran and we will have a
travel ban
against people traveling to you
today
saudi allies followed suit
Sunni dominated governments in
Bahrain
and Sudan announced they too are
cutting
diplomatic ties with Iran and
the United
Arab Emirates said it's
recalling its
ambassador from Tehran
little hope of this was sparked
by Saudi
Arabia's execution of shape
memory foam
Nomura a prominent Shiite cleric
on
Saturday he had been a major
critic of
the saudi government and a
central
figure of protest in 2012 before
he was
arrested
his execution touched off
widespread
protests in largely Shiite Iran
and
supreme leader Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei
condemn the saudis killing a
knowledgeable man who promoted
virtue
and prevent advice and had
religious
zeal is certainly a crime a
great crime
it is also a mistake because the
spilled
blood will undoubtedly bring
divine
retribution man-made retribution
came
quickly crowds ransacked saudi
Arabia's
embassy in Tehran and set it
ablaze
early yesterday that trigger the
saudis
decision to end diplomatic
relations
with Iran is getting support
from Shiite
protesters in large numbers
across the
region including involved brain
Pakistan
and Lebanon and two Sunni
mosques were
destroyed in Iraq the spike in
tensions
has the USA the UN and others
urging
both sides to step back
but the white house also bluntly
criticized the saudis today
there have
been direct concerns raised by
us-
officials to saudi officials
about the
potential damaging consequences
are
following a mass executions in
particular the execution of a
memory and
unfortunately the concerns that
we
expressed to the Saudis have
precipitated the kinds of
consequences
that we were concerned about
it's still
unclear what the consequences
will be
for ongoing Saudi Iranian proxy
wars in
Yemen Saudi Arabia has led an
air
campaign against Shiite
militants backed
by Iran and in Syria the sorties
and
other Gulf Arab states are
backing rebel
groups against President Bashar
Assad a
longtime ally of Iran tonight in
Tehran
the government of Iran Voice
regret over
the attacks on Saudi missions
and vowed
to arrest those responsible will
delve
more deeply into their
confrontation
after the news summary